---
slug: /nodejs-cli
sidebar_label: node コマンド
---

# 【Node.js】CLI

## コマンドラインから Node.js スクリプトを実行する方法

### 基本的な実行

```bash
node app.js
```

### シバンを使用した実行

```js
#!/usr/bin/node

// your code
```

### アプリケーションの自動的な再起動

`nodemon` を使用すれば、アプリケーションに変更があった場合に自動で Node を再起動できます。

```bash
npm i -g nodemon
nodemon app.js
```

---

## プロファイラ

- CPU プロファイラ – `--cpu-prof`
- ヒーププロファイラ – `--heap-prof`

## `man node`

### NAME

    node -- サーバーサイド JavaScript ランタイム

### SYNOPSIS

    node [options] [v8-options] [-e string | script.js | -] [--]
	     [arguments ...]
    node inspect [-e string | script.js | - | <host>:<port>] ...
    node [--v8-options]

### DESCRIPTION

    Node.jsは、ブラウザの外部で使用できるようにする JavaScript 用のライブラリのセットです。
    これは主に、シンプルで構築が容易なネットワーククライアントとサーバーの作成に重点を置いています。

    引数なしで node を実行すると REPL を開始します。

### OPTIONS

    -
        stdinのエイリアス。他のコマンドラインユーティリティでの - の使用に類似しています。 
        実行されたスクリプトは stdin から読み取られ、残りの引数はスクリプトに渡されます。

    --
        コマンドラインオプションの終わりを示します。残りの引数をスクリプトに渡します。

        これより前にスクリプトファイル名または eval/print スクリプトが指定されていない場合、
        次の引数がスクリプトファイル名として使用されます。

    --abort-on-uncaught-exception
        Aborting instead of exiting causes a core file to be generated
        for analysis.

    --completion-bash
        Node.js のソース可能な bash 完了スクリプトを出力します。

    -C, --conditions string
        Use custom conditional exports conditions.  string

    --cpu-prof
        Start the V8 CPU profiler on start up, and write the CPU profile
        to disk before exit. If --cpu-prof-dir is not specified, the pro-
        file will be written to the current working directory with a gen-
        erated file name.

    --cpu-prof-dir
        The directory where the CPU profiles generated by --cpu-prof will
        be placed.  The default value is controlled by the
        --diagnostic-dir.	command-line option.

    --cpu-prof-interval
        The sampling interval in microseconds for the CPU profiles gener-
        ated by --cpu-prof.  The default is 1000.

    --cpu-prof-name
        File name of the V8 CPU profile generated with --cpu-prof.

    --diagnostic-dir
        Set the directory for all diagnostic output files.  Default is
        current working directory.  Set the directory to which all diag-
        nostic output files will be written to.  Defaults to current
        working directory.  Affects the default output directory of:
        --cpu-prof-dir.  --heap-prof-dir.	--redirect-warnings.

    --disable-proto=mode
        Disable the `Object.prototype.__proto__` property. If mode is
        `delete`, the property will be removed entirely. If mode is
        `throw`, accesses to the property will throw an exception with
        the code `ERR_PROTO_ACCESS`.

    --disallow-code-generation-from-strings
        Make built-in language features like `eval` and `new Function`
        that generate code from strings throw an exception instead. This
        does not affect the Node.js `vm` module.

    --enable-fips
        Enable FIPS-compliant crypto at startup.  Requires Node.js to be
        built with ./configure --openssl-fips.

    --enable-source-maps
        Enable Source Map V3 support for stack traces.

    --experimental-import-meta-resolve
        Enable experimental ES modules support for import.meta.resolve().

    --experimental-json-modules
        Enable experimental JSON interop support for the ES Module
        loader.

    --experimental-loader=module
        Specify the module to use as a custom module loader.

    --experimental-policy
        Use the specified file as a security policy.

    --experimental-repl-await
        Enable experimental top-level await keyword support in REPL.

    --experimental-specifier-resolution
        Select extension resolution algorithm for ES Modules; either
        'explicit' (default) or 'node'.

    --experimental-vm-modules
        Enable experimental ES module support in VM module.

    --experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1
        Enable experimental WebAssembly System Interface support.

    --experimental-wasm-modules
        Enable experimental WebAssembly module support.

    --force-context-aware
        Disable loading native addons that are not context-aware.

    --force-fips
        Force FIPS-compliant crypto on startup (Cannot be disabled from
        script code).  Same requirements as --enable-fips.

    --frozen-intrinsics
        Enable experimental frozen intrinsics support.

    --heapsnapshot-near-heap-limit=max_count
        Generate heap snapshot when the V8 heap usage is approaching the
        heap limit.  No more than the specified number of snapshots will
        be generated.

    --heapsnapshot-signal=signal
        Generate heap snapshot on specified signal.

    --heap-prof
        Start the V8 heap profiler on start up, and write the heap pro-
        file to disk before exit. If --heap-prof-dir is not specified,
        the profile will be written to the current working directory with
        a generated file name.

    --heap-prof-dir
        The directory where the heap profiles generated by --heap-prof
        will be placed.  The default value is controlled by the
        --diagnostic-dir.	command-line option.

    --heap-prof-interval
        The average sampling interval in bytes for the heap profiles gen-
        erated by --heap-prof.  The default is 512 * 1024.

    --heap-prof-name
        File name of the V8 heap profile generated with --heap-prof.

    --icu-data-dir=file
        Specify ICU data load path.  Overrides NODE_ICU_DATA.

    --input-type=type
        Set the module resolution type for input via --eval, --print or
        STDIN.

    --inspect-brk=[host:]port
        Activate inspector on host:port and break at start of user
        script.

    --inspect-port=[host:]port
        Set the host:port to be used when the inspector is activated.

    --inspect-publish-uid=stderr,http
        Specify how the inspector WebSocket URL is exposed.  Valid values
        are stderr and http.  Default is stderr,http.

    --inspect=[host:]port
        Activate inspector on host:port.  Default is 127.0.0.1:9229.

        V8 Inspector integration allows attaching Chrome DevTools and
        IDEs to Node.js instances for debugging and profiling.  It uses
        the Chrome DevTools Protocol.

    --insecure-http-parser
        Use an insecure HTTP parser that accepts invalid HTTP headers.
        This may allow interoperability with non-conformant HTTP imple-
        mentations. It may also allow request smuggling and other HTTP
        attacks that rely on invalid headers being accepted. Avoid using
        this option.

    --jitless
        Disable runtime allocation of executable memory. This may be
        required on some platforms for security reasons. It can also
        reduce attack surface on other platforms, but the performance
        impact may be severe.

        This flag is inherited from V8 and is subject to change upstream.
        It may disappear in a non-semver-major release.

    --max-http-header-size=size
        Specify the maximum size of HTTP headers in bytes. Defaults to 16
        KB.

    --napi-modules
        This option is a no-op.  It is kept for compatibility.

    --no-deprecation
        Silence deprecation warnings.

    --no-force-async-hooks-checks
        Disable runtime checks for `async_hooks`.	These will still be
        enabled dynamically when `async_hooks` is enabled.

    --no-warnings
        Silence all process warnings (including deprecations).

    --node-memory-debug
        Enable extra debug checks for memory leaks in Node.js internals.
        This is usually only useful for developers debugging Node.js
        itself.

    --openssl-config=file
        Load an OpenSSL configuration file on startup.  Among other uses,
        this can be used to enable FIPS-compliant crypto if Node.js is
        built with ./configure --openssl-fips.

    --pending-deprecation
        Emit pending deprecation warnings.

    --policy-integrity=sri
        Instructs Node.js to error prior to running any code if the pol-
        icy does not have the specified integrity. It expects a Subre-
        source Integrity string as a parameter.

    --preserve-symlinks
        Instructs the module loader to preserve symbolic links when
        resolving and caching modules other than the main module.

    --preserve-symlinks-main
        Instructs the module loader to preserve symbolic links when
        resolving and caching the main module.

    --prof  Generate V8 profiler output.

    --prof-process
        Process V8 profiler output generated using the V8 option --prof.

    --redirect-warnings=file
        Write process warnings to the given file instead of printing to
        stderr.

    --report-compact
        Write diagnostic reports in a compact format, single-line JSON.

    --report-dir --report-directory
        Location at which the diagnostic report will be generated.  The
        `file` name may be an absolute path. If it is not, the default
        directory it will be written to is controlled by the
        --diagnostic-dir.	command-line option.

    --report-filename
        Name of the file to which the diagnostic report will be written.

    --report-on-fatalerror
        Enables the diagnostic report to be triggered on fatal errors
        (internal errors within the Node.js runtime such as out of mem-
        ory) that leads to termination of the application. Useful to
        inspect various diagnostic data elements such as heap, stack,
        event loop state, resource consumption etc. to reason about the
        fatal error.

    --report-on-signal
        Enables diagnostic report to be generated upon receiving the
        specified (or predefined) signal to the running Node.js process.
        Default signal is SIGUSR2.

    --report-signal
        Sets or resets the signal for diagnostic report generation (not
        supported on Windows). Default signal is SIGUSR2.

    --report-uncaught-exception
        Enables diagnostic report to be generated on un-caught excep-
        tions. Useful when inspecting JavaScript stack in conjunction
        with native stack and other runtime environment data.

    --secure-heap=n
        Specify the size of the OpenSSL secure heap. Any value less than
        2 disables the secure heap. The default is 0. The value must be a
        power of two.

    --secure-heap-min=n
        Specify the minimum allocation from the OpenSSL secure heap. The
        default is 2. The value must be a power of two.

    --throw-deprecation
        Throw errors for deprecations.

    --title=title
        Specify process.title on startup.

    --tls-cipher-list=list
        Specify an alternative default TLS cipher list.  Requires Node.js
        to be built with crypto support. (Default)

    --tls-keylog=file
        Log TLS key material to a file. The key material is in NSS
        SSLKEYLOGFILE format and can be used by software (such as Wire-
        shark) to decrypt the TLS traffic.

    --tls-max-v1.2
        Set default  maxVersion to 'TLSv1.2'. Use to disable support for
        TLSv1.3.

    --tls-max-v1.3
        Set default  maxVersion to 'TLSv1.3'. Use to enable support for
        TLSv1.3.

    --tls-min-v1.0
        Set default minVersion to 'TLSv1'. Use for compatibility with old
        TLS clients or servers.

    --tls-min-v1.1
        Set default minVersion to 'TLSv1.1'. Use for compatibility with
        old TLS clients or servers.

    --tls-min-v1.2
        Set default minVersion to 'TLSv1.2'. This is the default for 12.x
        and later, but the option is supported for compatibility with
        older Node.js versions.

    --tls-min-v1.3
        Set default minVersion to 'TLSv1.3'. Use to disable support for
        TLSv1.2 in favour of TLSv1.3, which is more secure.

    --trace-atomics-wait
        Print short summaries of calls to Atomics.wait().

    --trace-deprecation
        Print stack traces for deprecations.

    --trace-event-categories categories
        A comma-separated list of categories that should be traced when
        trace event tracing is enabled using --trace-events-enabled.

    --trace-event-file-pattern pattern
        Template string specifying the filepath for the trace event data,
        it supports ${rotation} and ${pid}.

    --trace-events-enabled
        Enable the collection of trace event tracing information.

    --trace-exit
        Prints a stack trace whenever an environment is exited proac-
        tively, i.e. invoking `process.exit()`.

    --trace-sigint
        Prints a stack trace on SIGINT.

    --trace-sync-io
        Print a stack trace whenever synchronous I/O is detected after
        the first turn of the event loop.

    --trace-tls
        Prints TLS packet trace information to stderr.

    --trace-uncaught
        Print stack traces for uncaught exceptions; usually, the stack
        trace associated with the creation of an Error is printed,
        whereas this makes Node.js also print the stack trace associated
        with throwing the value (which does not need to be an Error
        instance).

        Enabling this option may affect garbage collection behavior nega-
        tively.

    --trace-warnings
        Print stack traces for process warnings (including deprecations).

    --track-heap-objects
        Track heap object allocations for heap snapshots.

    --unhandled-rejections=mode
        Define the behavior for unhandled rejections. Can be one of
        `strict` (raise an error), `warn` (enforce warnings) or `none`
        (silence warnings).

    --use-bundled-ca, --use-openssl-ca
        Use bundled Mozilla CA store as supplied by current Node.js ver-
        sion or use OpenSSL's default CA store.  The default store is
        selectable at build-time.

        The bundled CA store, as supplied by Node.js, is a snapshot of
        Mozilla CA store that is fixed at release time.  It is identical
        on all supported platforms.

        Using OpenSSL store allows for external modifications of the
        store.  For most Linux and BSD distributions, this store is main-
        tained by the distribution maintainers and system administrators.
        OpenSSL CA store location is dependent on configuration of the
        OpenSSL library but this can be altered at runtime using environ-
        ment variables.

        See SSL_CERT_DIR and SSL_CERT_FILE.

    --use-largepages=mode
        Re-map the Node.js static code to large memory pages at startup.
        If supported on the target system, this will cause the Node.js
        static code to be moved onto 2 MiB pages instead of 4 KiB pages.

        mode must have one of the following values: `off` (the default
        value, meaning do not map), `on` (map and ignore failure, report-
        ing it to stderr), or `silent` (map and silently ignore failure).

    --v8-options
        Print V8 command-line options.

    --v8-pool-size=num
        Set V8's thread pool size which will be used to allocate back-
        ground jobs.  If set to 0 then V8 will choose an appropriate size
        of the thread pool based on the number of online processors.  If
        the value provided is larger than V8's maximum, then the largest
        value will be chosen.

    --zero-fill-buffers
        Automatically zero-fills all newly allocated Buffer and Slow-
        Buffer instances.

    -c, --check
        Check the script's syntax without executing it.  Exits with an
        error code if script is invalid.

    -e, --eval string
        Evaluate string as JavaScript.

    -h, --help
        Print command-line options.  The output of this option is less
        detailed than this document.

    -i, --interactive
        Open the REPL even if stdin does not appear to be a terminal.

    -p, --print string
        Identical to -e, but prints the result.

    -r, --require module
        Preload the specified module at startup.  Follows `require()`'s
        module resolution rules.  module may be either a path to a file,
        or a Node.js module name.

    -v, --version
        Print node's version.

### ENVIRONMENT
    FORCE_COLOR
        ANSIカラー出力を有効にするために使用されます。値は、1、true、
        または16色のサポートを示す空の文字列、256色のサポートを示す 2、
        または1,600万色のサポートを示す 3 のいずれかになります。
        使用してサポートされている値に設定すると、NO_COLOR 環境変数と
        NODE_DISABLE_COLORS 環境変数の両方が無視されます。
        その他の値を指定すると、色付きの出力が無効になります。

    NO_COLOR
        NODE_DISABLE_COLORS のエイリアス

    NODE_DEBUG modules...
        Comma-separated list of core modules that should print debug
        information.

    NODE_DEBUG_NATIVE modules...
        Comma-separated list of C++ core modules that should print debug
        information.

    NODE_DISABLE_COLORS
        1に設定すると、REPL で色は使用されません。

    NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS file
        When set, the well-known ``root'' CAs (like VeriSign) will be
        extended with the extra certificates in file.  The file should
        consist of one or more trusted certificates in PEM format.

        If file is missing or misformatted, a message will be emitted
        once using process.emitWarning(), but any errors are otherwise
        ignored.

        This environment variable is ignored when `node` runs as setuid
        root or has Linux file capabilities set.

        The NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS environment variable is only read when
        the Node.js process is first launched.  Changing the value at
        runtime using process.env.NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS has no effect on
        the current process.

    NODE_ICU_DATA file
        Data path for ICU (Intl object) data.  Will extend linked-in data
        when compiled with small-icu support.

    NODE_NO_WARNINGS
        When set to 1, process warnings are silenced.

    NODE_OPTIONS options...
        A space-separated list of command-line options, which are inter-
        preted as if they had been specified on the command line before
        the actual command (so they can be overridden).  Node.js will
        exit with an error if an option that is not allowed in the envi-
        ronment is used, such as --print or a script file.

    NODE_PATH directories...
        A colon-separated list of directories prefixed to the module
        search path.

    NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION
        When set to 1, emit pending deprecation warnings.

    NODE_PRESERVE_SYMLINKS
        When set to 1, the module loader preserves symbolic links when
        resolving and caching modules.

    NODE_REDIRECT_WARNINGS file
        Write process warnings to the given file instead of printing to
        stderr.  Equivalent to passing --redirect-warnings file on the
        command line.

    NODE_REPL_HISTORY file
        Path to the file used to store persistent REPL history.  The
        default path is ~/.node_repl_history, which is overridden by this
        variable.	Setting the value to an empty string ("" or " ") will
        disable persistent REPL history.

    NODE_SKIP_PLATFORM_CHECK
        When set to 1, the check for a supported platform is skipped dur-
        ing Node.js startup.  Node.js might not execute correctly.  Any
        issues encountered on unsupported platforms will not be fixed.

    NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED
        When set to 0, TLS certificate validation is disabled.

    NODE_V8_COVERAGE dir
        When set, Node.js writes JavaScript code coverage information to
        dir.

    OPENSSL_CONF file
        Load an OpenSSL configuration file on startup.  Among other uses,
        this can be used to enable FIPS-compliant crypto if Node.js is
        built with ./configure --openssl-fips.

        If the --openssl-config command-line option is used, this envi-
        ronment variable is ignored.

    SSL_CERT_DIR dir
        If --use-openssl-ca is enabled, this overrides and sets OpenSSL's
        directory containing trusted certificates.

    SSL_CERT_FILE file
        If --use-openssl-ca is enabled, this overrides and sets OpenSSL's
        file containing trusted certificates.

    UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE size
        Sets the number of threads used in libuv's threadpool to size.

### BUGS
    Bugs are tracked in GitHub Issues: https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues

### COPYRIGHT
    Copyright Node.js contributors.  Node.js is available under the MIT
    license.

    Node.js also includes external libraries that are available under a vari-
    ety of licenses.  See https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/LICENSE
    for the full license text.

### SEE ALSO
    ウェブサイト: https://nodejs.org/

    ドキュメンテーション: https://nodejs.org/api/

    GitHubリポジトリと issue トラッカー: https://github.com/nodejs/node

    IRC（一般的な質問）: libera.chat #node.js (非公式)

### AUTHORS
    1000人以上の寄稿者によって書かれ、維持されています:
    https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/AUTHORS

			       2021年10月16日

## `node --help`

### Usage

    node [options] [ script.js ] [arguments]
    node inspect [options] [ script.js | host:port ] [arguments]

### Options

    -                           script read from stdin (default if no
                                file name is provided, interactive mode
                                if a tty)
    --                          indicate the end of node options
    --abort-on-uncaught-exception
                                aborting instead of exiting causes a
                                core file to be generated for   analysis
    -c, --check                 syntax check script without executing
    --completion-bash           print source-able bash completion
                                script
    -C, --conditions=...        additional user conditions for
                                conditional exports and imports
    --cpu-prof                  Start the V8 CPU profiler on start up,
                                and write the CPU profile to disk
                                before exit. If --cpu-prof-dir is not
                                specified, write the profile to the
                                current working directory.
    --cpu-prof-dir=...          Directory where the V8 profiles
                                generated by --cpu-prof will be placed.
                                Does not affect --prof.
    --cpu-prof-interval=...     specified sampling interval in
                                microseconds for the V8 CPU profile
                                generated with --cpu-prof. (default:
                                1000)
    --cpu-prof-name=...         specified file name of the V8 CPU
                                profile generated with --cpu-prof
    --diagnostic-dir=...        set dir for all output files (default:
                                current working directory)
    --disable-proto=...         disable Object.prototype.__proto__
    --disallow-code-generation-from-strings
                                disallow eval and friends
    --dns-result-order=...      set default value of verbatim in
                                dns.lookup. Options are 'ipv4first'
                                (IPv4 addresses are placed before IPv6
                                addresses) 'verbatim' (addresses are in
                                the order the DNS resolver returned)
    --enable-fips               enable FIPS crypto at startup
    --enable-source-maps        Source Map V3 support for stack traces
    -e, --eval=...              evaluate script
    --experimental-import-meta-resolve
                                experimental ES Module
                                import.meta.resolve() support
    --experimental-json-modules experimental JSON interop support for
                                the ES Module loader
    --loader, --experimental-loader=...
                                use the specified module as a custom
                                loader
    --experimental-policy=...   use the specified file as a security
                                policy
    --experimental-repl-await   experimental await keyword support in
                                REPL
    --es-module-specifier-resolution, --experimental-specifier-resolution=...
                                Select extension resolution algorithm
                                for es modules; either 'explicit'
                                (default) or 'node'
    --experimental-vm-modules   experimental ES Module support in vm
                                module
    --experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1
                                experimental WASI support
    --experimental-wasm-modules experimental ES Module support for
                                webassembly modules
    --force-context-aware       disable loading non-context-aware
                                addons
    --force-fips                force FIPS crypto (cannot be disabled)
    --frozen-intrinsics         experimental frozen intrinsics support
    --heap-prof                 Start the V8 heap profiler on start up,
                                and write the heap profile to disk
                                before exit. If --heap-prof-dir is not
                                specified, write the profile to the
                                current working directory.
    --heap-prof-dir=...         Directory where the V8 heap profiles
                                generated by --heap-prof will be
                                placed.
    --heap-prof-interval=...    specified sampling interval in bytes
                                for the V8 heap profile generated with
                                --heap-prof. (default: 512 * 1024)
    --heap-prof-name=...        specified file name of the V8 heap
                                profile generated with --heap-prof
    --heapsnapshot-near-heap-limit=...
                                Generate heap snapshots whenever V8 is
                                approaching the heap limit. No more
                                than the specified number of heap
                                snapshots will be generated.
    --heapsnapshot-signal=...   Generate heap snapshot on specified
                                signal
    -h, --help                  print node command line options
                                (currently set)
    --huge-max-old-generation-size
                                increase default maximum heap size on
                                machines with 16GB memory or more
    --icu-data-dir=...          set ICU data load path to dir
                                (overrides NODE_ICU_DATA) (note:
                                linked-in ICU data is present)
    --input-type=...            set module type for string input
    --insecure-http-parser      use an insecure HTTP parser that
                                accepts invalid HTTP headers
    --inspect[=[host:]port]     activate inspector on host:port
                                (default: 127.0.0.1:9229)
    --inspect-brk[=[host:]port] activate inspector on host:port and
                                break at start of user script
    --debug-port, --inspect-port=[host:]port
                                set host:port for inspector
    --inspect-publish-uid=...   comma separated list of destinations
                                for inspector uid(default: stderr,http)
    -i, --interactive           always enter the REPL even if stdin
                                does not appear to be a terminal
    --interpreted-frames-native-stack
                                help system profilers to translate
                                JavaScript interpreted frames
    --jitless                   disable runtime allocation of
                                executable memory
    --max-http-header-size=...  set the maximum size of HTTP headers
                                (default: 16384 (16KB))
    --no-deprecation            silence deprecation warnings
    --no-force-async-hooks-checks
                                disable checks for async_hooks
    --no-warnings               silence all process warnings
    --node-memory-debug         Run with extra debug checks for memory
                                leaks in Node.js itself
    --openssl-config=...        load OpenSSL configuration from the
                                specified file (overrides OPENSSL_CONF)
    --pending-deprecation       emit pending deprecation warnings
    --policy-integrity=...      ensure the security policy contents
                                match the specified integrity
    --preserve-symlinks         preserve symbolic links when resolving
    --preserve-symlinks-main    preserve symbolic links when resolving
                                the main module
    -p, --print [...]           evaluate script and print result
    --prof                      Generate V8 profiler output.
    --prof-process              process V8 profiler output generated
                                using --prof
    --redirect-warnings=...     write warnings to file instead of
                                stderr
    --report-compact            output compact single-line JSON
    --report-directory, --report-dir=...
                                define custom report pathname.
                                (default: current working directory)
    --report-filename=...       define custom report file name.
                                (default:
                                YYYYMMDD.HHMMSS.PID.SEQUENCE#.txt)
    --report-on-fatalerror      generate diagnostic report on fatal
                                (internal) errors
    --report-on-signal          generate diagnostic report upon
                                receiving signals
    --report-signal=...         causes diagnostic report to be produced
                                on provided signal, unsupported in
                                Windows. (default: SIGUSR2)
    --report-uncaught-exception generate diagnostic report on uncaught
                                exceptions
    -r, --require=...           module to preload (option can be
                                repeated)
    --secure-heap=...           total size of the OpenSSL secure heap
    --secure-heap-min=...       minimum allocation size from the
                                OpenSSL secure heap
    --throw-deprecation         throw an exception on deprecations
    --title=...                 the process title to use on startup
    --tls-cipher-list=...       use an alternative default TLS cipher
                                list
    --tls-keylog=...            log TLS decryption keys to named file
                                for traffic analysis
    --tls-max-v1.2              set default TLS maximum to TLSv1.2
                                (default: TLSv1.3)
    --tls-max-v1.3              set default TLS maximum to TLSv1.3
                                (default: TLSv1.3)
    --tls-min-v1.0              set default TLS minimum to TLSv1.0
                                (default: TLSv1.2)
    --tls-min-v1.1              set default TLS minimum to TLSv1.1
                                (default: TLSv1.2)
    --tls-min-v1.2              set default TLS minimum to TLSv1.2
                                (default: TLSv1.2)
    --tls-min-v1.3              set default TLS minimum to TLSv1.3
                                (default: TLSv1.2)
    --trace-atomics-wait        trace Atomics.wait() operations
    --trace-deprecation         show stack traces on deprecations
    --trace-event-categories=...
                                comma separated list of trace event
                                categories to record
    --trace-event-file-pattern=...
                                Template string specifying the filepath
                                for the trace-events data, it supports
                                ${rotation} and ${pid}.
    --trace-exit                show stack trace when an environment
                                exits
    --trace-sigint              enable printing JavaScript stacktrace
                                on SIGINT
    --trace-sync-io             show stack trace when use of sync IO is
                                detected after the first tick
    --trace-tls                 prints TLS packet trace information to
                                stderr
    --trace-uncaught            show stack traces for the `throw`
                                behind uncaught exceptions
    --trace-warnings            show stack traces on process warnings
    --track-heap-objects        track heap object allocations for heap
                                snapshots
    --unhandled-rejections=...  define unhandled rejections behavior.
                                Options are 'strict' (always raise an
                                error), 'throw' (raise an error unless
                                'unhandledRejection' hook is set),
                                'warn' (log a warning), 'none' (silence
                                warnings), 'warn-with-error-code' (log
                                a warning and set exit code 1 unless
                                'unhandledRejection' hook is set).
                                (default: throw)
    --use-bundled-ca            use bundled CA store (default)
    --use-largepages=...        Map the Node.js static code to large
                                pages. Options are 'off' (the default
                                value, meaning do not map), 'on' (map
                                and ignore failure, reporting it to
                                stderr), or 'silent' (map and silently
                                ignore failure)
    --use-openssl-ca            use OpenSSL's default CA store
    --v8-options                print V8 command line options
    --v8-pool-size=...          set V8's thread pool size
    -v, --version               print Node.js version
    --zero-fill-buffers         automatically zero-fill all newly
                                allocated Buffer and SlowBuffer
                                instances
  
### Environment variables

    FORCE_COLOR                 when set to 'true', 1, 2, 3, or an
                                empty string causes NO_COLOR and
                                NODE_DISABLE_COLORS to be ignored.
    NO_COLOR                    Alias for NODE_DISABLE_COLORS
    NODE_DEBUG                  ','-separated list of core modules that
                                should print debug information
    NODE_DEBUG_NATIVE           ','-separated list of C++ core debug
                                categories that should print debug
                                output
    NODE_DISABLE_COLORS         set to 1 to disable colors in the REPL
    NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS         path to additional CA certificates
                                file. Only read once during process
                                startup.
    NODE_NO_WARNINGS            set to 1 to silence process warnings
    NODE_PATH                   ':'-separated list of directories
                                prefixed to the module search path
    NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION    set to 1 to emit pending deprecation
                                warnings
    NODE_PENDING_PIPE_INSTANCES set the number of pending pipe instance
                                handles on Windows
    NODE_PRESERVE_SYMLINKS      set to 1 to preserve symbolic links
                                when resolving and caching modules
    NODE_REDIRECT_WARNINGS      write warnings to path instead of
                                stderr
    NODE_REPL_HISTORY           path to the persistent REPL history
                                file
    NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED
                                set to 0 to disable TLS certificate
                                validation
    NODE_V8_COVERAGE            directory to output v8 coverage JSON to
    UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE          sets the number of threads used in
                                libuv's threadpool
